OpenAI instrumentation docs fixes (#2988)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib: instrumentation-genai/opentelemetry-instrumentation-openai-v2/README.rst

    pip install opentelemetry-instrumentation-openai-v2

Usage
-----

Instrumenting all clients
*************************

When using the instrumentor, all clients will automatically trace OpenAI chat completion operations

> and capture prompts and completions as events.

Reviewer: This only happens when `OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_GENAI_CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CONTENT` is set as `true`, right? Can we highlight the parameter here as well?

Reviewer 2: Might be worthwhile putting the example (json) format of the content.

Also might be worth stating that if doing this you may have to configure your pipeline to redact any sensitive info contained in the content.

Author: All examples can be found in semantic conventions - https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/gen-ai/gen-ai-events.md and it'd be hard to keep them in sync. 

I don't think we should have a redaction example specific to OpenAI instrumentation.

> When using the instrumentor, all clients will automatically trace OpenAI chat completion operations
> and capture prompts and completions as events.

Reviewer 3: Similar thought to @gyliu513 and also I don't think most people know what events are yet, specifically they are log not span. Maybe adding the word log helps?

```suggestion
When using the instrumentor, all clients will automatically trace OpenAI chat completion operations.
You can also optionally capture prompts and completions as log events, discussed later.
```

Make sure to configure OpenTelemetry tracing, logging, and events to capture all telemetry emitted by the instrumentation.

.. code-block:: python

    from opentelemetry.instrumentation.openai_v2 import OpenAIInstrumentor

    OpenAIInstrumentor().instrument()

    client = OpenAI()
    response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-4o-mini",
        messages=[
            {"role": "user", "content": "Write a short poem on open telemetry."},
        ],
    )

> Enabling message content

Reviewer 3: was this snippet about configuring logs and events meant to be in here, too? https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/5575#discussion_r1835188607

Author: added manual configuration example with this code snippet.

*************************

Message content such as the contents of the prompt, completion, function arguments and return values

> are not captured by default. To enable message content, set the environment variable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
are not captured by default. To capture message content as log events, set the environment variable
```

Reviewer 2: Is there a doco or something related to setting up log events instrumentation that can be linked in place here? Most existing apps will not have log events provider setup.

Reviewer 2: @karthikscale3 just confirming we are using log events and not span events for this even in the interim?

Reviewer 4: We are using span events in the interim at the moment - https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/pull/2759/files?diff=unified&w=0#diff-954647898e3f111e390e80f228b8d86a8df076df8f43496783d6f8660a5f29aaR118

Reviewer 3: @dasiths https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python/issues/4269 has the patch for log event enabling, but that will only work if your backend/collector accepts logs.

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused because I'm trying to test it with `OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_GENAI_CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CONTENT=true` and I can see the span but not span events in Tempo.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/79d4404f-7ee8-4cb5-ae92-77a098f07137)

Span events for other spans are showing up so it's not an integration issue with Tempo. I fear I may be doing something wrong which might be an opportunity to improve the docs once we figure it out.

Reviewer 4: My bad sorry, i just realized this PR was merged - https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/pull/2925/files . Yes log events is what we are using now.

Reviewer 3: @dasiths can you confirm you can see the log events in tempo by clicking "logs for this span"? I've not tried tempo..

Reviewer 2: > @dasiths can you confirm you can see the log events in tempo by clicking "logs for this span"? I've not tried tempo..

Yes the logs do appear once `OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_GENAI_CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CONTENT=true` is set. https://github.com/jsburckhardt/ai-translation-bot-demo/blob/c3ddf39f65cba2eac742fdfbfb4dec4ebe19d7b3/app/services/observability.py#L150C6-L163C13

Reviewer 3: "I did however get a warning saying event logger provider is already set." me, too, but hopefully when "zero code" works that message goes away with it.

> `OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_GENAI_CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CONTENT` to `true`.

Reviewer 3: note: I found that if this is set to false, it currently crashes. Validation if that's only me requested [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/5575#discussion_r1841594784)

Author: thanks for fixing otlp exporter - https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python/pull/4276 !
